---
title: August 26, 2020 Newsletter
permalink: /newsletter08262020/
layout: page
exclude: true
---
*This is a periodic newsletter of the interesting things we’ve seen and what we are thinking about in open source policy analysis.*

**Tax-Calculator 3.0.0 released.** Policy Simulation Library has
released version 3.0.0 of the Tax-Calculator microsimulation model. The
latest release adopts ParamTools for parameter processing and
validation, hosts new documentation on Jupyter Books, creates a new
parameter for adjusting inflation-indexed parameters, and includes
various data updates. [Release
notes](https://github.com/PSLmodels/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/docs/about/releases.md#2020-08-24-release-300)

**Research using Tax-Calculator presented at the Tax Economists Forum.**
Max Ghenis of the UBI Center presented results from a coauthored
[paper](http://covid.ubicenter.org/fpuc.html#data) comparing the
effects of extended unemployment relief, payroll tax cuts, and a
universal basic income. [Presentation
Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1456wwH-W24gXrfOhvDRCHyqZRhelUx64XTrXj-HQRYw/edit#slide=id.g6293382480_0_338)

**Salesforce open sources the AI Economist.** Researchers from
Salesforce and Harvard University have collaborated to create the AI
Economist, a machine learning project based on reinforcement learning
that analyzes individuals’ behavior to produce an optimal tax policy.
While using reinforcement learning to assess various tax policies from
the government or planner’s perspective has been [implemented
before](https://www.brookings.edu/research/can-ai-model-economic-choices/),
the application of reinforcement learning to individuals is an important
feature that reveals behavioral responses to tax policy not previously
estimated in the literature. The project was developed by Richard Socher
from Salesforce Research and David Parkes from Harvard University.
[Link](https://github.com/salesforce/ai-economist)

**The Economist magazine open sources its election prediction model.**
The Economist magazine has released the source code for its 2020
presidential election forecasting model on Github. The open-source
Bayesian model is written in R, and Stan and has been updated from
previous iterations to incorporate support for nonresponse bias and data
from state-level elections earlier in the year. The project was
developed by the data science team at The Economist in collaboration
with political scientists Andrew Gelman and Merlin Heidemanns from
Columbia University.
[Link](https://github.com/TheEconomist/us-potus-model)


Edited by Matt Jensen, Peter Metz, and Jacob Chuslo


<br>

<script style="margin-left:-35px" src="//hello.aei.org/js/forms2/js/forms2.min.js"></script>
<form style="margin-left:-35px" id="mktoForm_1256"></form>
<script style="margin-left:-35px" >MktoForms2.loadForm("//app-sj19.marketo.com", "475-PBQ-971", 1256);</script>