---
title: Septemnber 9, 2020 Newsletter
permalink: /newsletter09092020/
layout: page
exclude: true
---
*This is a periodic newsletter of the interesting things we’ve seen and what we are thinking about in open source policy analysis.*

**Analysis of business investment under Biden tax policy plan with
Cost-of-Capital Calculator and Tax-Calculator.** In a new report, Kyle
Pomerleau (AEI) used Tax-Calculator and Cost-of-Capital-Calculator to
analyze the tax burden on business investment that would stem from Joe
Biden’s proposed tax policy. Results show the marginal effective tax
rate (METR) for business investment would be 7.8 percentage points
higher over the next year relative to current law and that the proposed
tax legislation would favor debt-financed and noncorporate investment.
Alongside the report, Pomerleau partnered with Matt Jensen (AEI) and
Peter Metz (AEI) to develop a web app visualizing METRs on capital under
current tax law and Biden’s proposed tax law.
[Paper](https://www.aei.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/The-tax-burden-on-business-investment-under-Joe-Bidens-tax-proposals.pdf),
[Visualization](https://t.co/oI11965KSB?amp=1)

**UI-Calculator added to the Policy Simulation Library**. University of
Chicago researchers have added their unemployment insurance (UI)
calculator to the Policy Simulation Library. The project calculates
weekly UI benefits for individuals based on earnings history under
current law or alternative policies. The project was created by Peter
Ganong, Pascal Noel, Peter Robertson, and Joseph Vavra.
[Link](https://github.com/PSLmodels/ui_calculator)

**Linux Foundation and IBM release open-source earthquake warning
system**. The Linux Foundation, Grillo, and IBM have released a new
earthquake early warning system for developing countries to use. The
software may be deployed on a number of cost-effective platforms,
including the Raspberry Pi, and the project is open-source.
[Link](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press-release/2020/08/the-linux-foundation-grillo-and-ibm-announce-new-earthquake-early-warning-open-source-project/)

**An open-source python package released for querying physical
oceanographic data.** The Laboratory for Ocean Physics and Science in
France has released “argopy,” a Python library for querying physical
oceanographic data (such as temperature, salinity, and water pressure)
from _Argo_. _Argo_ is an internationally deployed collection of about 3,500
autonomous floating probes designed to oscillate within the water column
between the ocean surface and 6,500 feet below it.
[Link](https://joss.theoj.org/papers/10.21105/joss.02425)

Edited by Matt Jensen, Peter Metz, and Jacob Chuslo


<br>

<script style="margin-left:-35px" src="//hello.aei.org/js/forms2/js/forms2.min.js"></script>
<form style="margin-left:-35px" id="mktoForm_1256"></form>
<script style="margin-left:-35px" >MktoForms2.loadForm("//app-sj19.marketo.com", "475-PBQ-971", 1256);</script>